.TH SIGROK-CLI 1 "April 7, 2010"
.SH "NAME"
sigrok-cli \- Command-line client for the sigrok logic analyzer software
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B sigrok-cli \fR[\fB\-VDdptofh\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fB\-D\fR|\fB\-\-list-devices\fR] [\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-device\fR devid] [\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-probes\fR probelist] [\fB\-t\fR|\fB\-\-triggers\fR triggerlist] [\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-device-option\fR devopt] [\fB\-I\fR|\fB\-\-input\-file\fR filename] [\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-format\fR formatname] [\fB\-\-time\fR ms] [\fB\-\-samples\fR numsamples] [\fB\-\-continuous\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B sigrok-cli
is a cross-platform command line utility for the
.B sigrok
logic analyzer software.
.PP
The command-line frontend for sigrok cannot display graphical output, but is
still sufficient to run through the whole process of hardware initialization,
acquisition, protocol analysis and saving the session.
.PP
It is useful for running on remote or embedded systems, netbooks, PDAs,
and for various other use-cases. It can display samples on standard output or
save them in various file formats.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "\-V, \-\-version"
Show version, driver and module information.
.TP
.B "\-D, \-\-list-devices"
List all logic analyzer devices found on the system.
.TP
.BR "\-d, \-\-device " <devid>
The device to use for acquisition, specified by ID as reported by
.BR "\-\-list-devices" .
.TP
.BR "\-p, \-\-probes " <probelist>
A comma-separated list of probes to be used in the session.
.sp
The default is to use all the probes available on a device. You can name
a probe like this:
.BR "1=CLK" .
A range of probes can also be given, in the form
.BR "1-5" .
.sp
Example:
.sp
 $
.B "sigrok-cli --samples 100 --probes 1=CLK,2-4,7"
.br
 CLK:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
   2:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
   3:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
   4:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
   7:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
.sp
The comma-separated list is processed from left to right, i.e. items farther
to the right override previous items. For example
.B "1=CS,1=MISO"
will set the name of probe 1 to
.BR "MISO" .
.sp
Also, while
.B "5=MOSI,6=MISO"
will only select probes 5 and 6, and set their names to MISO and MOSI, the
command line
.B "5=MOSI,6=MISO,1-8"
will select probes 1-8 (including 5 and 6, of course), but the names specified
for probes 5 and 6 will be reset to the defaults by the
.B "1-8"
probe selection.
.TP
.BR "\-t, \-\-triggers " <triggerlist>
A comma-separated list of triggers to use, of the form
.BR "<probe>=<trigger>" .
You can use the name or number of the probe, and the trigger itself is a
series of characters:
.sp
.BR "0 or 1" :
A low or high value on the pin.
.br
.BR "r or f" :
A rising or falling value on the pin. An
.B r
effectively corresponds to
.BR 01 .
.br
.BR "c" :
Any kind of change on a pin.
.sp
Not every device supports all of these trigger types. Use the
.B "-d <device-id>"
argument (with no other arguments) to see which triggers your device supports.
.TP
.BR "\-o, \-\-device-option " <devopt>
Set a device-specific option. The argument takes the form of
.BR "option=value" .
A common option is
.BR samplerate ,
with the argument being the samplerate in Hz. You can also specify the sample
rate in kHz, MHz or GHz. The following are all equivalent:
.sp
 sigrok-cli --samples 100 -o samplerate=1000000
 sigrok-cli --samples 100 -o samplerate=1m
 sigrok-cli --samples 100 -o "samplerate=1 MHz"
.sp
The
.B \-\-device-option
argument can be used multiple times as needed.
.TP
.BR "\-I, \-\-input-file " <filename>
Load input from a file instead of a device.
.TP
.BR "\-f, \-\-format " <formatname>
Set the output format to use.
.sp
Supported formats currently include
.BR bits ,
.BR hex ,
.BR binary ,
.BR vcd ", and"
.BR gnuplot .
.sp
The
.B bits
or
.B hex
formats, for an ASCII bit display or ASCII hexadecimal
display, can be optionally followed by a length argument specifying the number
of samples (in bits). Thus
.B hex128
would display 128 bits per line, in hexadecimal:
.sp
 1:ffff ffff ffff ffff ffff ffff ffff ffff
 2:ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00 ff00
.sp
The lines always start with the probe number (or name, if defined), followed by a colon. If no format is specified, it defaults to
.BR bits64 ,
like this:
.sp
 1:11111111 11111111 11111111 11111111 [...]
 2:11111111 00000000 11111111 00000000 [...]
.TP
.BR "\-\-time " <ms>
Sample for
.B <ms>
milliseconds, then quit. You can optionally follow the number by
.B s
to state the number of seconds to sample instead. For example,
.B "--time 2s"
will sample for two seconds.
.TP
.BR "\-\-samples " <numsamples>
Acquire
.B <numsamples>
samples, then quit.
.TP
.BR "\-\-continuous"
Sample continuously until stopped. Not all devices support this.
.TP
.B "\-h, \-\-help"
Show a help text and exit.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
In order to get exactly 100 samples from the (only) detected logic analyzer
hardware, run the following command:
.TP
.B "  sigrok-cli --samples 100"
.TP
If you want to sample data for 3 seconds, use:
.TP
.B "  sigrok-cli --time 3000"
.TP
Alternatively, you can also use:
.TP
.B "  sigrok-cli --time 3s"
.TP
To capture data from 4 probes lasting 100ms at 10 MHz starting at the trigger condition 1:high, 2:rising, 3:low, 4:high, use:
.TP
.B "  sigrok-cli -f bits -p 1-4 --time 100 -o samplerate=10m --wait-trigger --triggers 1=1,2=r,3=0,4=1 "
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B sigrok-cli
exits with 0 on success, 1 on most failures.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsigrok-gui\fP(1)
.SH "BUGS"
Please report any bugs on the sigrok-devel mailing list
.RB "(" sigrok-devel@lists.souceforge.net ")."
.SH "LICENSE"
.B sigrok-cli
is covered by the GNU General Public License (GPL). Some portions are
licensed under the "GPL v2 or later", some under "GPL v3 or later".
.SH "AUTHORS"
Please see the individual source code files.
.PP
This manual page was written by Uwe Hermann <uwe@hermann-uwe.de>.
It is licensed under the terms of the GNU GPL (version 2 or later).
